
todo: multiple bombs exploding in the same location

remotes.txt - Test various things about remotes.

bombtimers.esx - Test shortest, medium, and longest bomb timers.

bomb_bots.esx - Test subtle interactions between bots and bombs.

bomb_panels.esx - Tests that panels are properly destroyed
        by bombs.

bombable1.esx - Tests that some bombable tiles are indeed
        destroyed by bombs.

huggeneral.esx - General tests for Hugbots.

dalgeneral.esx - General tests for Daleks. 

lasersafe.esx - Tests all of the things that can block
        lasers (except other lasers, but that is
        untestable). 

pacthing_bug.esx - Panel activation must happen at the end
        of a motion; here's a situation from "Pac-Thing"
        that tests one aspect of that with pushing a bot.

transponders.esx - Tests various things about transponders
        and cross-over wires.

gpa.esx - Panel abuse with gold blocks.

trap_panel_order.esx - tests bug where panels didn't happen
        last when self-targeting and a trap is behind.

tpp.esx - tests bug from jumps (tom7 variation),
        where pushing a bot across a panel could cause the
        trap to not fall, because panels didn't happen last

pestcontrol.esx - tests some bot behavior, but mainly intended
        as an animation test for bots. (from Stephen)

roughtest.esx - tests bug from "rough.esx" where two panels
		with their destination set to the floor between
		them causes a block pushed over the configuration
		to duplicate itself.

steel1.esx - Steel should behave the same, even though it is
        a totally different part of the code.

selfpanel.esx - When pushing a block onto a panel that targets
		itself, that block should disappear. This is
		used in the level "don't touch".

elecbug.esx - If the target of a panel is electric, and we push
        a gold block off the panel into that electric, we need
        to set the alternate world to electric, not the current
        world.

sdead.esx - Starting dead. Since the rule is that we check for
        death or winning *after* each move, it is safe to start
        in the path of a laser.

spheretest.esx - Tests various things about spheres and colored
        panels.

heartf.esx - Tests various things about heart framers and sleeping
        exits. They should block lasers, ones in the "bizarro world"
        shouldn't count, bots can't pick them up or walk over sleeping
        exits.

botontop.esx - tests bugs regarding pushing a block out from under a
        bot, etc.

brokenbots.esx - Tests the semantics of broken bots. They can be
        pushed over most kinds of stuff and into electricity.

dalek_elec.esx - Tests daleks and electricity. Bug from "the dalek
        question", as well as entity exclusion principle on strange
        start conditions.

dalekdie.esx - Tests panel edge effects when daleks (and other bots)
        die. The behavior is somewhat unintuitive, but is correct.

panelab.esx - General "panel abuse" for "permanent" panel effects.

steel2.esx - Various tests for steel tiles.

badswaps.esx - Regression against a bug where swaps would be initiated
        incorrectly. Since the destination for a tile that doesn't have
        a panel is usually 0, this kills the player if tile 0,0 is ever
        swapped.

worstcase.esx - A level that's about as large and expensive as it gets
        for the current limits.

checkstepoff.esx - A function has to be called whenever the player leaves
        a tile, so this coverage-tests that check.

botorder.esx - Tests that bots are moving in the correct order.

otherside-bug.esx - Regression against a bug where a transporter would
        trigger a stepoff swap before checking if the player is
        landing on a panel. Panel swaps must happen last.
