cc-lib                             Tom 7       28 Jun 2014

Like my much more impressive "sml-lib", this is my attempt to get
all of my frequently used C++ libraries into a single place so that
different copies don't accumulate different changes.

I try to use portable style where possible to make compiling against
this easy. I hate complicated makefiles, actually basically all build
systems, library dependencies, autoconf, and that stuff. But ultimately
it's kind of complicated, you know?

I'm pretty much on C++11 everywhere now, so these libraries may use
C++11 features. It's worth it. GCC 4.8 and later have pretty complete
support.

A lot of what's here is google "base" libraries, since those are quite
useful and I know them well. They have been released multiple times
under open-source licenses; particularly the Apache 2.0 license, which
is in APACHE20. Googletest is the "new BSD" license, in gtest/LICENSE.

Sean Barrett's excellently simple stb_* libraries are in the public
domain; see the notices at the tops of those files.

Some of the numerical routines in randutil are based on Numpy. If you
believe that this is a "copy" or "substantial portion", then please
abide by Numpy's permissive license; see NUMPY.LICENSE.

Currently, everything else is licensed under the GPL, which can be
found in COPYING.

base/        Google "base" library. APACHE20 license.
strings/     Google "strings" library. APACHE20 license.
sdl/         Utilities for my habits in SDL. Includes bitmap font rendering.
jdksmidi/    Baroque but thorough MIDI library, GPL.
city/        The excellent CityHash hash algorithm.
gtest/       Google testing library. New BSD license.

wavesave - Saves an array of audio samples as a WAV file. Limited input
           formats, though it is not hard to add more.
util     - General C++ utilities, accumulated throughout the ages. Some
           are pretty embarrassing and should be cleaned up/out.
heap     - Implementation of binary heaps.
textsvg  - Pretty trivial support for generating SVG files manually.
arcfour  - Implementation of the ARCFOUR (alleged RC4) algorithm, which
           is a fast and simple cryptographic random stream generator.
timer    - Utterly trivial timer, in need of further development.
