
Critical
 - Gameplay of any kind


Should do
 - Non-placeholder titlestart.png
 - Record title theme song
 - Record gameplay theme song

Optional
 - Improve pupils
 - Make cats look less mean on title screen



Title theme song:
  It's dangerous to go      alone
  but you got another paw   to hold
  Maybe we better not?
  but we gotta catch that dot!
  and it's dangerous to go alone...

  It's dangerous to go     outside
  adventurous              implied

  It's dangerous to leave  the house
  Adventurous enough   to chase   a mouse

  shivering  in the abyss
  I'm glad I took my sis!

  cuz it's dangerous to go alone!



Win theme:

  we knew that down in that cave
  we would finally find the place

  where all the dots hang out
  and fly around and fly around

          C               G
  and now our adventure's done
          Dm       E-F
  endless stimulation
      A  G   F
  of radiation
    D+  A/C  G
  class I
  
     F+riff
  do not stare
  do not stare
  
  directly into the beam


Priority Cats in "It's dangerous to go alone. Take sis!"

This is a short platformer written in Flash for the competition. I used (and modified) the same "physics engine" and tile library I used and modified for "Disco? Very!" and some other games.

The chief innovation here is that the game is controlled entirely with mouse motion (no buttons). It's fairly intuitive, although it may be realistically frustrating. :) The ending should be pretty easy to find. If you collect everything then there's a little bit extra.

Features:
 - 4 original tunes, some with lyrics and everything! A new record!
 - 25 accessible rooms, some more interesting than others. :)
 - Biologically plausible seeking behavior!
 - Single-input gameplay! Go ahead and use an eye-tracker!
 - Surprise ending!

I may polish up some of the jumps for a post-compo version, since some are fiddly. Hint: Line-of-sight matters and the cats have different behaviors.